Add documentation for migration from Api to ApiRule (#7993)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/api-gateway-v2/03-04-migration.md

---
title: Migration from the previous Api resources
type: Details
---

> The migration is done automatically by a job. During the migration the old Api object is being migrated to an APIRule object, what may cause temporary unavailability of the exposed service. After the successful migration the old resource is removed. The migration might be skipped for some Api configuration, in which case the manual migration process may be done. It won't break the existing service exposure, but any changes to the Api object won't be effective.

Reviewer: > The migration is done automatically by a job.

I suggest you describe the job and explain when it is triggered.

> During the migration the old Api object is being migrated to an APIRule object, what may cause temporary unavailability of the exposed service.

Avoid repetitions (migration, migrated). The "temporary unavailability" sounds awkward. My suggestion: "During the migration, the old Api object is being translated to an APIRule object, which may result in a temporary downtime of the exposed service.

> After the successful migration the old resource is removed.

"The original resource is deleted as a part of the migration process."

> The migration might be skipped for some Api configuration, in which case the manual migration process may be done.

Let's turn it into a warning, shall we? Then you can provide a link to the relevant section that describes manual migration. 

> It won't break the existing service exposure, but any changes to the Api object won't be effective.

This sentence is confusing and I can't quite figure out what it refers to.

Reviewer: this is by no means outdated!

> The migration is done automatically by a job. During the migration, the old Api object is being migrated to an APIRule object, what may cause temporary unavailability of the exposed service. After the successful migration, the old resource is removed. The migration might be skipped for some Api configuration, in which case the manual migration process may be done. It won't break the existing service exposure, but any changes to the Api object won't be effective.

Reviewer 2: It is described in the api-migrator README.md file. Perhaps a link will be enough? Or we can copy-paste this information here.

> The migration is done automatically by a job. During the migration, the old Api object is being migrated to an APIRule object, what may cause temporary unavailability of the exposed service. After the successful migration, the old resource is removed. The migration might be skipped for some Api configuration, in which case the manual migration process may be done. It won't break the existing service exposure, but any changes to the Api object won't be effective.

Author: I described below which cases should not be migrated manually (invalid status or a blacklisted label), which means that all other cases (exactly one - `API is too complex for automatic translation`) may be migrated.

List remaining Apis to check whether any Api migration has been skipped

```shell script
kubectl get apis --all-namespaces
```

As Api resources are removed after a successful migration, all the resources that are left should be considered as not migrated. To get more details fetch logs from the migrator job

```shell script
kubectl logs api-gateway-api-migrator-job -n kyma-system
```

You will find logs saying which Api was not migrated and a reason for that.

> If the Api was not migrated due to the invalid status or a blacklisted label, you either shouldn't or will not be able to do the migration.

Reviewer: Now this part here is begging for a header. Without a proper introduction (details on the migration job, see my previous comment), it's just out of context. My position is that you should spell it out to the user: the migration is a part of Kyma upgrade. You can verify your APIs once the upgrade process is over.

https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.11/components/api-gateway-v2#custom-resource-api-rule

Only the `spec` part of the CRD will be described. `metadata` field can be adjusted in any way and `status` field should not be copied.

Starting from the `service` field of APIRule, copy `name` and `port` fields from the `service` field of Api object. Please set `host` value to any temporary value including the domain. For example, if the `hostname` value of Api was set to `sample-service.kyma.local` you can change it to `temp-sample-service.kyma.local`. Just make sure that the hostname is not used by other services on your cluster. That value will be changed in a later step, but for now it needs to be different than the original value. Set `gateway` field of APIRule to the Istio Gateway used to expose services. By default it will be `kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local`.

The configuration of the `rules` field of APIRule is more complex and depends on the `authentication` configuration of APIRule. As all the basic scenarios are covered by automatic migration, this explanation will only concern the configurations that are not handled automatically.

> The basic difference between Apis and APIRules authentication configuration is that while Api allows to enable the authentication and disable it on specific paths, the APIRule has an approach where you specifies what authentication should be used per specific path (including the possibility to set it for all paths) and the paths might not cross each other. Another important difference is that Api supports a list of issuers and jwks URIs, but excluded paths are set independently on both. It means that in the example below to access `/exact/path/to/resource.jpg` path the token issued from `https://auth.kyma.local` is required, to access any path starting with `/pref/` the token issued from `https://dex.kyma.local` is required, to access the `/no/auth/needed/resource.html` no token is required because it is excluded for both settings and to access all other paths the token from one of the issuers is required.

Author: The actual behaviour for both resources:

**Api** = enable authentication on all paths + disable on some paths (blacklist)
**APIRule** = enable authentication on specific paths (whitelist)

Anyway, I revised it a little. Please take a look if it is more understandable now.

| **spec.gateway**| Replace the default value (`kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local`) with Istio Gateway used to expose services.|
| **spec.service.name**| Copy the value of the corresponding parameter of the Api CR.|
| **spec.service.port**| Copy the value of the corresponding parameter of the Api CR.|
| **spec.service.host**| Set the value for **service.host** parameter to any temporary value which includes the domain. For example, if the value for the **hostname** parameter of the Api CR was set to `sample-service.kyma.local`, change it to `temp-sample-service.kyma.local` so that differs from the original value. Make sure other services on your cluster do not use this hostname. |
| **spec.rules**| The **spec.rules** parameter allows you to provide authentication by defining a list of paths along with the authentication methods. The way of handling authentication differs for Api CR and APIRule CR. Consider the section below as a point of reference when defining this part of specification.|

Use the **spec.rules** parameter to specify the authentication type per path and use a regular expression to match every path, a subset of possible paths, or a single one.  

> See the example:

Reviewer 3: If we need the Api CR example for comparison, we can rewrite it to:

See the example of an Api CR:
```
authentication:
- type: JWT
  jwt:
    issuer: https://dex.kyma.local
    jwksUri: http://dex-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys
    triggerRule:
      excludedPaths:
      - exact: /exact/path/to/resource.jpg
      - exact: /no/auth/needed/resource.html
- type: JWT
  jwt:
    issuer: https://auth.kyma.local
    jwksUri: http://auth-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys
    triggerRule:
      excludedPaths:
      - prefix: /pref/
      - exact: /no/auth/needed/resource.html
```
In this configuration:

To access the /exact/path/to/resource.jpg path, you need a token issued by https://auth.kyma.local.
To access any path starting with /pref/ you need a token issued by https://dex.kyma.local.
To access the /no/auth/needed/resource.html you don't need any token because the path is excluded for both configurations.
To access all other paths you need a token from one of the issuers.

The APIRule corresponding to this example would look as follows:

.... and the rest follows.

Author: I think that it would be better to have the example.

```yaml
rules:
  - path: /no/auth/needed/resource.html
    methods: ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE"]
    accessStrategies:
    - handler: allow
  - path: /pref/.*
    methods: ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE"]
    accessStrategies:
    - handler: jwt
      config:
        trusted_issuers:
        - "https://dex.kyma.local"
        jwks_urls:
        - "http://dex-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys"
  - path: /exact/path/to/resource.jpg
    methods: ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE"]
    accessStrategies:
    - handler: jwt
      config:
        trusted_issuers:
        - "https://auth.kyma.local"
        jwks_urls:
        - "http://auth-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys"
  - path: (?!/pref/.*)(?!/exact/path/to/resource.jpg)/.*
    methods: ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE"]
    accessStrategies:
    - handler: jwt
      config:
        trusted_issuers:
        - "https://dex.kyma.local"
        - "https://auth.kyma.local"
        jwks_urls:
        - "http://dex-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys"
        - "http://auth-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys"
```

> The important part to notice is the last path configuration containing regex with a negative lookahead. It is used to exclude paths handled by other path settings from the `/.*` path, as there can't be two different configurations for a single path. There is one exception to that, which applies only if the same `excludedPaths` element is present on all `authentication` settings, so the specific path doesn't require any authentication at all. In that case, a rule with `handler: allow` should be created, and the path doesn't have to be excluded using a negative lookahead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the last path configuration contains a regular expression with a negative lookahead. It is used to exclude paths handled by other path settings from the `/.*` path, as there can't be two different configurations for a single path. There is one exception to that, which applies only if the same `excludedPaths` element is present on all `authentication` settings, so the specific path doesn't require any authentication at all. In that case, a rule with `handler: allow` should be created, and the path doesn't have to be excluded using a negative lookahead.
```

> It is used to exclude paths handled by other path settings from the `/.*` path, as there can't be two different configurations for a single path.

This sentence might sound super confusing to regex greenhorns (like me). I think I get your point, but I'm not sure.

Reviewer 2: I would replace the part: "as there can't be two different configurations for a single path" with: "as the path definitions in an APIRule **must** be unique."

---
title: Migration from the previous Api resources
type: Details
---

The migration is done automatically by a job, which runs during the Kyma upgrade. During the migration, the old Api object is being translated to an APIRule object, which may result in a temporary downtime of the exposed service. The original resource is deleted as a part of the migration process. The tool used by the job is described [in this document](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/components/api-gateway-migrator/README.md#api-gateway-migrator).

> >**CAUTION:** The migration might be skipped for some Api configuration, in which case the [manual migration process](#manual-migration) may be done. Not proceeding with the manual migration won't break the existing service exposure, but any further changes or removal of the Api resource won't affect how the service is exposed - the original configuration will be used.

Author: I do not fully agree with the beginning. 

> Some Api configurations are too complex to be automatically migrated.

It is true, but there are also other cases, where the complexity doesn't matter (invalid status or a blacklisted label). 
Maybe something like this?

> Some Api configurations are too complex or do not meet all requirements to be automatically migrated.

> >**CAUTION:** The migration might be skipped for some Api configuration, in which case the [manual migration process](#manual-migration) may be done. Not proceeding with the manual migration won't break the existing service exposure, but any further changes or removal of the Api resource won't affect how the service is exposed - the original configuration will be used.

Reviewer: purrrrfect!

## Verify automatic migration

To check whether any Api migration has been skipped, after the Kyma upgrade is finished list all remaining Apis: 

```shell script
kubectl get apis --all-namespaces
```

As Api resources are removed after a successful migration, all the resources that are left should be considered as not migrated. To get more details fetch logs from the migrator job

```shell script
kubectl logs api-gateway-api-migrator-job -n kyma-system
```

You will find logs saying which Api was not migrated and a reason for that.

If the Api was not migrated due to the invalid status or a blacklisted label, you either shouldn't or will not be able to do the migration.

## Manual migration

The manual migration process consists of the following steps:

> 1. Get Api resource you want to migrate. It would be helpful to have it open during the whole migration process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Fetch the Api resource you want to migrate:
```

```shell script

> kubectl get api <NAME> -n <NAMESPACE>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl get api <NAME> -n <NAMESPACE> -o yaml
```

```

> 2. Create APIRule resource with a different host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create an APIRule resource based on the original Api object
```

Here is the documentation for both custom resources, which may be useful during the migration:

https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.11/components/api-gateway/#custom-resource-api-sample-custom-resource
https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.11/components/api-gateway-v2#custom-resource-api-rule

Only the `spec` part of the CRD will be described. `metadata` field can be adjusted in any way and `status` field should not be copied.

> Starting from the `service` field of APIRule, copy `name` and `port` fields from the `service` field of Api object. Please set `host` value to any temporary value including the domain. For example, if the `hostname` value of Api was set to `sample-service.kyma.local` you can change it to `temp-sample-service.kyma.local`. Just make sure that the hostname is not used by other services on your cluster. That value will be changed in a later step, but for now it needs to be different than the original value. Set `gateway` field of APIRule to the Istio Gateway used to expose services. By default it will be `kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local`.

Reviewer: I suggest using bullet points for clarity here.

The configuration of the `rules` field of APIRule is more complex and depends on the `authentication` configuration of APIRule. As all the basic scenarios are covered by automatic migration, this explanation will only concern the configurations that are not handled automatically.

> The basic difference between Apis and APIRules authentication configuration is that while Api allows to enable the authentication for the whole service and disable it on specific paths only, the APIRule has an approach where you specify what authentication should be used per specific path (including the possibility to set it for all paths) and the paths must not cross each other. Another important difference is that Api supports a list of issuers and jwks URIs, but excluded paths are set independently on both. It means that in the example below to access `/exact/path/to/resource.jpg` path the token issued from `https://auth.kyma.local` is required, to access any path starting with `/pref/` the token issued from `https://dex.kyma.local` is required, to access the `/no/auth/needed/resource.html` no token is required because it is excluded for both settings and to access all other paths the token from one of the issuers is required.

Reviewer: > ... and the paths must not cross each other.

Perhaps "must not overlap" would be more accurate? You could also provide an example of different yet overlapping paths.

Reviewer: > It means that in the example below to access `/exact/path/to/resource.jpg` path the token issued from `https://auth.kyma.local` is required, to access any path starting with `/pref/` the token issued from `https://dex.kyma.local` is required, to access the `/no/auth/needed/resource.html` no token is required because it is excluded for both settings and to access all other paths the token from one of the issuers is required.

Again, bullet points would make this section transparent. - Path, authentication method (if any), commentary.

Reviewer 2: I prefer more strict approach: "must not overlap" -> "must be unique"

Author: IMHO "must be unique" is not sufficient here. You can say that `/.*` and `/something/.*` are two unique paths, but you can't use that configuration, as they overlap.

---
title: Migration from the previous Api resources
type: Details
---

The migration is done automatically by a job, which runs during the Kyma upgrade. During the migration, an old Api object is being translated to an APIRule object, which may result in a temporary downtime of the exposed service. The original resource is deleted as a part of the migration process. The tool used by the job is described [in this document](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/components/api-gateway-migrator/README.md#api-gateway-migrator).

> >**CAUTION:** Some Api configurations are too complex or do not meet all requirements to be automatically migrated. To make sure all your services are exposed via APIRules, [verify the outcome](#verify-automatic-migration) of the migration job and follow the [manual migration process](#manual-migration) guide if necessary. Not proceeding with the manual migration won't break the existing service exposure, but any further changes or removal of the Api resource won't affect how the service is exposed - the original configuration will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**CAUTION:** Some Api configurations are too complex or do not meet all requirements to be automatically migrated. To make sure all your services are exposed via APIRules, [verify the outcome](#verify-automatic-migration) of the migration job and follow the [manual migration process](#manual-migration) guide if necessary. Skipping the migration won't break the existing service exposure, but any further changes or removal of the Api resource won't affect how the service is exposed - the original configuration will be used.
```

## Verify automatic migration

List the existing Api objects after the Kyma upgrade is finished. Run this command:

```shell script
kubectl get apis --all-namespaces
```

> As Api objects are removed after a successful migration, all the listed resources should be considered not migrated. Fetch logs from the job's pod to learn the reason for skipping the migration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As Api objects are removed after a successful migration, all the listed resources are considered not migrated. Fetch logs from the job's pod to learn the reason for skipping the migration. 
```

```shell script
kubectl logs api-gateway-api-migrator-job -n kyma-system
```

If the Api was not migrated due to the invalid status or a blacklisted label, you either shouldn't or will not be able to do the migration.

## Manual migration

The manual migration process consists of the following steps:

1. Fetch the Api resource you want to migrate:

```shell script
kubectl get api <NAME> -n <NAMESPACE> -o yaml
```

2. Create an APIRule resource based on the original Api object

Here is the documentation for both custom resources, which may be useful during the migration:

https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.11/components/api-gateway/#custom-resource-api-sample-custom-resource

> https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.11/components/api-gateway-v2#custom-resource-api-rule

Reviewer: >**TIP:**

maybe?

Reviewer: disambiguation: **maybe** you could use the `tip` preset here. 😆

Author: done

Only the `spec` part of the CRD will be described. `metadata` field can be adjusted in any way and `status` field should not be copied.

Starting from the `service` field of APIRule:
 * Copy `name` and `port` fields from the `service` field of Api object. 
 * Set `host` value to any temporary value including the domain. For example, if the `hostname` value of Api was set to `sample-service.kyma.local` you can change it to `temp-sample-service.kyma.local`. Just make sure that the hostname is not used by other services on your cluster. That value will be changed in a later step, but for now it needs to be different than the original value. 
 * Set `gateway` field of APIRule to the Istio Gateway used to expose services. By default it will be `kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local`.

> The configuration of the `rules` field of APIRule is more complex and depends on the `authentication` configuration of APIRule. As all the basic scenarios are covered by automatic migration, this explanation will only concern the configurations that are not handled automatically.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The configuration of the `rules` field of APIRule is more complex and depends on the `authentication` configuration of Api. As all the basic scenarios are covered by automatic migration, this explanation will only concern the configurations that are not handled automatically.
```

> The basic difference between Apis and APIRules authentication configuration is that while Api allows to enable the authentication for the whole service and disable it on specific paths only, the APIRule has an approach where you specify what authentication should be used per specific path (including the possibility to set it for all paths) and the paths must not overlap. Another important difference is that Api supports a list of issuers and jwks URIs, but excluded paths are set independently on both. In the example below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most important difference between Apis and APIRules authentication configuration is that Api is configured with a list of JWT issuers and APIRule is configured with a list of path definitions.
In the Api you can define a list of excluded paths for an issuer. Requests for these paths will not require authentication by this issuer but will require authentication from other configured issuers.
The APIRule has an approach where you specify what authentication should be used per the path definition.
Because paths are defined using regular expressions, you can define an expression that matches every path, or a subset of possible paths, or a single one.
Remember that path definitions in the APIRule must not overlap - if they do, requests to such paths are rejected. That's why translating an Api with multiple issuers having different excluded paths requires sophisticated regex definitions in a corresponding APIRule.
In the example below:
```

Author: done

Below is the list showing how ApiRule path value corresponds to the excludedPaths values from Api resource, and what negative lookahead value should be added to the `/.*` path:

| excludedPaths expression type | description | excludedPaths sample value | path value | negative lookahead value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|**exact**| no changes to be made | /exact/path/to/resource.jpg | /exact/path/to/resource.jpg | (?!/exact/path/to/resource.jpg) |
|**prefix**| add `.*` to the end | /pref/ | /pref/.* | (?!/pref/.*) |
|**suffix**| add `.*` to the beginning; in negative lookahead add `\s` to the end | /suffix.ico | .*/suffix.ico | (?!.*/suffix.ico\s) |
|**regex**| no changes to be made | /anything.* | /anything.* | (?!/anything.*) |

> When the configuration is ready, please create the APIRule object and test if the service is working as expected on the new host. It should work the same on both hosts.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When the configuration is ready, create the APIRule object and test if the service is working as expected on the new host. It should work the same on both hosts.
```

> When the configuration is ready, please create the APIRule object and test if the service is working as expected on the new host. It should work the same on both hosts.

Reviewer 2: At this point, the host is still temporary and you can't test it, unless it points to something existing.

Reviewer: it is pointing to an existing service:

- old API exposes a service at https://service-a.my.kyma
- new APIRule exposes the same service at https://temporary-service-a.my.kyma

Both hosts should be accessible at this point:
>Copy `name` and `port` fields from the `service` field of Api object.

Author: @jakkab is right

> 3. Remove Api resource and dependant resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Remove Api resource and dependent resources
```

> 3. Remove Api resource and dependant resources

Reviewer 2: I would move this to the end, last step after successful migration. This object is still a blueprint for the migration even if it doesn't actually work.

Reviewer: This is why @kubadz suggests to fetch it at the very beginning od the process. It is not possible to swap points 3 and 4: you need to delete the original API in order to avoid conflicting hosts in Virtual Services. Am I correct @kubadz?

Author: I do not agree.

1. It can't be removed as the last step, because it occupies the original host. It has to be removed before the last step, otherwise it won't work.
2. In step 1 of manual migration, a user fetches the Api configuration, so it can be used as a blueprint. During the migration nothing changes in the Api resource, so there is no need to have another "blueprint"

Reviewer 2: OK, my fault - I wasn't precise enough:)
I was meaning to move to the end only removal of the Api object. VS must be removed at this point (because it occupies host), Api can be removed at the end.

Author: done

```shell script
kubectl delete api <API_NAME> -n <NAMESPACE>

> kubectl delete virtualservice <API_NAME> -n <NAMESPACE>

Reviewer 4: why do we need to manually delete vs? At this point, we don't have api-controller already?

Author: Yes. The manual migration should occur after the upgrade and an api-controller is removed during the upgrade.

```

> Please make sure that the Virtual Service resource is deleted before proceeding to the next instruction.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Make sure that the Virtual Service resource is deleted before proceeding to the next instruction.
```

---
title: Migration from the previous Api resources
type: Details
---

> The migration is done automatically by a job, which runs during the Kyma upgrade. During the migration, an old Api object is being translated to an APIRule object, which may result in a temporary downtime of the exposed service. The original resource is deleted as a part of the migration process. The tool used by the job is described [in this document](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/components/api-gateway-migrator/README.md#api-gateway-migrator).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The migration is done automatically by a job that runs during the Kyma upgrade. During the migration, an old Api object is being translated to an APIRule object, which may result in a temporary downtime of the exposed service. The original resource is deleted as a part of the migration process. The tool used by the job is described [in this document](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/components/api-gateway-migrator/README.md#api-gateway-migrator).
```

> * [APIRule CR](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.11/components/api-gateway-v2#custom-resource-api-rule).

Only the `spec` part of the CRD will be described. `metadata` field can be adjusted in any way and `status` field should not be copied.

Starting from the `service` field of APIRule:
 * Copy `name` and `port` fields from the `service` field of Api object. 
 * Set `host` value to any temporary value including the domain. For example, if the `hostname` value of Api was set to `sample-service.kyma.local` you can change it to `temp-sample-service.kyma.local`. Just make sure that the hostname is not used by other services on your cluster. That value will be changed in a later step, but for now it needs to be different than the original value. 
 * Set `gateway` field of APIRule to the Istio Gateway used to expose services. By default it will be `kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local`.

The configuration of the `rules` field of APIRule is more complex and depends on the `authentication` configuration of Api. As all the basic scenarios are covered by automatic migration, this explanation will only concern the configurations that are not handled automatically.

> The most important difference between Apis and APIRules authentication configuration is that Api is configured with a list of JWT issuers set for all paths of a service and APIRule is configured with a list of per path definitions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most important difference between Apis and APIRules authentication configuration is that Api is configured with a list of JWT issuers set for all paths of a service and APIRule is configured with a list of path definitions.
```

> The most important difference between Apis and APIRules authentication configuration is that Api is configured with a list of JWT issuers set for all paths of a service and APIRule is configured with a list of per path definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most important difference in authentication configuration between Apis and APIRules is that an Api object is configured with a list of JWT issuers set for all paths of a service, while an APIRule is configured with a list of path definitions along with their respective authentication methods.
```

---
title: Migration from Api to APIRule custom resources
type: Details
---

The migration from Api to APIRule custom resources (CRs) is performed automatically by a job that runs during the Kyma upgrade. During this process, the [API Gateway Migrator tool](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/components/api-gateway-migrator/README.md#api-gateway-migrator) translates the existing Api CRs to APIRule CRs and deletes original resources.

> **CAUTION:** Migrating resources may result in a temporary downtime of the exposed service. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
>**CAUTION:** Migrating resources may result in a temporary downtime of the exposed service. 
```

Follow these steps:

1. Fetch the API resource you want to migrate:

    ```shell script
    kubectl get api {NAME} -n {NAMESPACE} -o yaml
    ```

2. Create an APIRule resource based on the API object's specification:

>**NOTE:** This step focuses on the`spec` part of the CRD. You can `metadata` field in a preferred way and do not copy the [`status`](components/api-gateway-v2#custom-resource-api-rule-additional-information) field from the original API resource.

a. Replace the default value (`kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local`) for the **gateway** parameter with Istio Gateway used to expose services. 

b. Copy the values for **service.name** and **service.port** parameters from the corresponding fields of the API object. 

c. Set the value for **service.host** parameter to any temporary value which includes the domain. For example, if the value for the **hostname** parameter of the API object was set to `sample-service.kyma.local`, change it to `temp-sample-service.kyma.local` so that differs from the original value. Make sure other services on your cluster do not use this hostname. 

> d. Configure the **rules** parameter of APIRule.

Reviewer 3: I was wondering - maybe we can have an example with such a configuration here - I mean we have this big section explaining all the differences and comparing API but maybe an example would be good?

>**NOTE:** If the migration process skipped the Api resources due to the invalid status or a blacklisted label, migration is not possible.

Here are the steps you need to follow to ensure your services are properly migrated:
1. [Verify the migration outcome](#verify-automatic-migration). 
2. If you can still see any Api CRs in use, use the [manual migration](#manual-migration) guide to migrate them.

## Verify the automatic migration

Follow these steps to verify if all Api CRs were migrated to APIRule CRs.

1. Once the Kyma upgrade finishes, list the existing Api CRs:

    ```shell script
      kubectl get apis --all-namespaces
    ```

2. As Api CRs are removed after a successful migration, the list shows all resources skipped by the migration job. Fetch the logs from the job's Pod to find out the reasons: 

    ```shell script
    kubectl logs api-gateway-api-migrator-job -n kyma-system
    ```

## Manual migration

This guide shows how you can manually migrate Api CRs to APIRule CRs.

> >**NOTE:** Before you start the manual migration process, see the [Api CR](/components/api-gateway/#custom-resource-api-sample-custom-resource) and [APIRule CR](/components/api-gateway-v2#custom-resource-api-rule) documents for the custom resource detailed definition.

Author: The problem with the link `[Api CR](/components/api-gateway/#custom-resource-api-sample-custom-resource)` is that it will not work after merging this PR, as we are removing that part of the documentation. Previously I used links to specific version of the documentation (https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.11/components/api-gateway#custom-resource-api-sample-custom-resource) but I see that you changed it. It applies to all links referring to the api-controller (api-gateway v1) documentation.

    ```
Make sure that the Virtual Service resource is deleted before proceeding.

4. If the Api CR was secured with an authentication mechanism, delete the Policy resource:

    ```shell script
     kubectl delete policy {API_NAME} -n {NAMESPACE}
    ```

5. To make the service returns to its original host, set the **spec.service.host** parameter of APIRule CR to the value used by the Api CR.

    ```shell script
    kubectl edit apirule {APIRULE_NAME} -n {NAMESPACE}
    ```

After saving that configuration, the service should be available on the original hostname.

6. Remove the Api CR:

    ```shell script
    kubectl delete api {API_NAME} -n {NAMESPACE}
    ```

## Authentication of Apis and APIRules
2. Create an APIRule CR based on the Api CR's specification.

To properly configure the authentication mechanism for the new APIRule, learn more about the differences in authentication configuration for Api and APIRule CRs:
>**NOTE:** Do not copy the [**status**](components/api-gateway-v2#custom-resource-api-rule-additional-information) parameter from the original Api CR.

| Api CR       | APIRule CR| 
|--------------| ----------|

> |Configured with a list of JWT issuers set for all paths of a service.| Configured with a list of path definitions along with their respective authentication methods.|

Author: IMHO the information in this table is important - it explains the most important difference between both Custom Resources.

Reviewer 3: It's there, just at a later point :) After both examples.

> | **spec.gateway**| Replace the default value (`kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local`) with Istio Gateway used to expose services.|

Author: The user should not replace the default value. Instead, most probably they should use the default value, as it is the default Istio Gateway in Kyma used to expose services. 

There was no field specifying gateway in an Api CR, as it was set by default to the value `kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local`. In APIRule the user can use a different Isito Gateway, but it is not something we suggest.

        - "http://dex-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys"
        - "http://auth-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys"
```
>**NOTE:** Path definitions in the APIRule CR cannot overlap, otherwise the requests to such paths are rejected. 

> The **spec.rules** parameter corresponds to **spec.authentication** defined in the Api CR where you can specify a [list multiple JWT token issuers](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/api-gateway/#details-security-specify-multiple-jwt-token-issuers) to allow secured access and use the **triggerRule.excludedPaths** parameter to exclude paths that don't require any authentication. 

Author: IMHO this seem to suggest that the **spec.rules** in the example corresponds to **spec.authentication** in the linked Api CR, but those are two separate examples. It would make sense if you used an API example, like you described in your comment. https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/7993#discussion_r413574223

> If you want to exclude paths in APIRule definition, for example to avoid two different configurations for a single path, you can use a regular expression with a negative lookahead. In the example, such an expression is used to in the last path exclude the paths already handled by other configuration settings from the `/.*` path. 

Author: Just to be sure. Shouldn't this part:
`[...] used to in the last path exclude [...]`
be `[...] used in the last path to exclude [...]` instead? Or was that intended?

| Expression type | Description | Sample value | Path value | Negative lookahead value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|**exact**| no changes | `/exact/path/to/resource.jpg` | `/exact/path/to/resource.jpg` | `(?!/exact/path/to/resource.jpg)` |
|**prefix**| add `.*` at the end | `/pref/` | `/pref/.*` | `(?!/pref/.*)` |
|**suffix**| add `.*` at the beginning; in negative lookahead add `\s` at the end | `/suffix.ico` | `.*/suffix.ico | (?!.*/suffix.ico\s)` |
|**regex**| no changes | `/anything.*` | `/anything.*` | `(?!/anything.*)` |

If the same **excludedPaths** element is present throughout the authentication settings, a particular path doesn't require any authentication. In that case, create a rule with `handler: allow`, so that you don't have to exclude the path using a negative lookahead.
 
3. When the configuration is ready, create the APIRule object and test if the service is working as expected on the new host. It should work the same on both hosts.

4. Remove the dependent resources of the Api CR:

   ```shell script
     kubectl delete virtualservice {API_NAME} -n {NAMESPACE}
    ```
Make sure that the Virtual Service resource is deleted before proceeding.

> 5. If the Api CR was secured with an authentication mechanism, delete the Policy resource:

Author: The Policy CR is also a dependent resource - I would suggest merging it with point 4 or use 
```
4. Remove the VirtualService resource:
```
instead of
```
4. Remove the dependent resources of the Api CR:
```
